src/content/02-employment.md, before:

Title: Employment History
id: employment

### Software Engineer, Arvato Systems, Latvia/Hybrid

#### DECEMBER 2024 - PRESENT

- developed a performant and scalable PDF parsing solution as Azure durable function for locating page number for certain text chunks.
- maintained and developed new features for API as a service for building RAG based flows.
- in a FastAPI project reduced unit tests and integration tests execution time from 5 minutes to 2.5 through various optimizations such as pytest fixture scope, test containers setup, DB migrations execution time and code refactor.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: Python, FastAPI, Pydantic, Azure Cloud, AI & LLM tools, libraries</div>

<div class="page-break-before"></div>

### Software Engineer, FinTech, Latvia/Hybrid

#### APRIL 2024 - JULy 2024

- Contributed to a project related to merchant risk score estimation based on various factors, such as payments made from high-risk countries, or multi-currency, cross-border payments.
- Highlighted the necessity of optimizing SQL queries early before feature release, while processing huge amounts of payment rows fetched from the database.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Google Cloud Platform, Kibana, Grafana</div>

### Software Engineer, Prezi, Latvia/Remote

####  JUNE 2020 - MARCH 2024

- Supported the development of various A/B tests, conducted on main 'traffic receivers' of Prezi, such as prezi.com, prezi.com/design/, prezi.com/product/, and prezi.com/video/ pages to figure out which layout/block/text on the page leads to better business metrics in the visitor/user flow.
- Developed/supported various payment and subscription-related flows in Prezi, e.g., transforming user subscription accounts based on the user's license type (single or multi).
- Improved existing fraud prevention logic in trial payment flow and introduced it in upgrade/renewal flows to reduce the number of fraudulent transactions ending up as chargebacks.
- Integrated Invisible reCAPTCHA on Prezi Sign-up pages, which substantially reduced the cognitive load and as an experiment has shown, increased registration amount by 17%, compared to regular signup with visible reCAPTCHA box.
- Shipped part of the backend logic for downloading the business invoices in 1 click from secure authentication-less links provided in email campaigns.
- Implemented cookie consent logic via 3rd party integration on top-funnel pages for EU visitors, allowing 3rd party tracking after consent is given.
- Introduced Facebook conversion event tracking from the backend using Conversions API, which led to more accurate conversion data in the analytics dashboards.
- Maintained and delivered new features to internal CMS and CRM.
- Supported micro-services stack modernization, like upgrading services from the deprecated python2.7 version or moving the python packages CI/CD pipelines to GitHub Actions from Jenkins.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: Python/Django, React/Typescript, AWS S3, RDS PostgreSQL, Automation Tests(Java/Gherkin), Grafana, Google Tools</div>

<div class="page-break-before"></div>

### Software Engineer, Infogram, Riga

####  2018 - JUNE 2020

- Led the development of infogram.com homepage and infogram.com/templates pages, built with Next.js.
- Led the modernizing of UI in the Prezi Design editor, which became part of the Prezi product suite eventually.
- Introduced the UI of the integrations panel within the Infogram editor, allowing users to connect to popular database sources, such as MySQL or PostgreSQL.
- Migrated support.infogram.com to the Zendesk Help Center platform.
- Fought Google Analytics / User tracking legacy left from the early days of Infogram startup.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: React, Node.js, Next.js, Google Tools</div>

### Web Developer, Sehner International, Riga/Hamburg

#### AUGUST 2016 - DECEMBER 2017

- Developed and maintained the online tool pflegegrad-berechnen.de for calculating the healthcare degree for seniors in Germany. That tool ultimately became the top result in Google SERP's searched by "pflegegrad berechnen" keyword, but more importantly, it serves the needs of visitors/users.
- Maintained the sehner.international, pflegemarkt.com business websites.
- Developed customized WordPress theme websites for clients of Sehner Int. and pm pflegemarkt.com GmbH.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: PHP, WordPress, Google Tools</div>

Commit message:

Resume updates (#11)
- Revise professional summary to reflect senior software engineer role and updated skills
- Enhance employment history with detailed contributions and technologies used
- Correct certification details and update credential URLs
- Adjust site name and description in configuration for consistency

src/content/02-employment.md, after:

Title: Employment History
id: employment

### Senior Software Engineer (B2B Consultant), Healthtech Startup, Remote

#### October 2025 - Present

- Contribute to a FastAPI-based payment calculation service that automates monthly capitation payment processing for healthcare organizations, improving payment accuracy and reducing manual reconciliation time.
- Collaborate with client engineers in migrating from legacy systems to modern service-based architecture, ensuring seamless transition and data integrity throughout the modernization process.
- Contribute as a full-stack engineer, delivering end-to-end features from API development to client-facing views, including both internal admin interfaces and public-facing portals.
- Design and implement RESTful API endpoints for generating detailed service statements and payment reports, enabling transparent financial tracking for healthcare providers.
- Contribute to authentication service initiatives, including.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: Python, FastAPI, Pydantic, SQLAlchemy, React, TypeScript, Node.js/Fastify, TanStack & Turborepo, PostgreSQL, AWS & Terraform, Docker, OpenTelemetry</div>


### Senior Software Engineer, Arvato Systems, Latvia/Hybrid

#### DECEMBER 2024 - October 2025

- developed ChatGPT-like RAG (retrieval-augmented generation) application for enterprise customers, which allows them to build AI-powered applications on top of their data, such as knowledge bases, documents, or databases, thinking about performance, security, and cost-efficiency of the solution.
- developed a performant and scalable PDF parsing solution as Azure durable function for locating page number for certain text chunks.
- maintained and developed new features for API as a service for building RAG based flows.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: Python, FastAPI, Pydantic, Azure Cloud, AI & LLM tools, libraries</div>

<div class="page-break-before"></div>

### Software Engineer, FinTech, Latvia/Hybrid

#### APRIL 2024 - JULy 2024

- Contributed to a project related to merchant risk score estimation based on various factors, such as payments made from high-risk countries, or multi-currency, cross-border payments.
- Highlighted the necessity of optimizing SQL queries early before feature release, while processing huge amounts of payment rows fetched from the database.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Google Cloud Platform, Kibana, Grafana</div>

### Software Engineer, Prezi, Latvia/Remote

####  JUNE 2020 - MARCH 2024

- Supported the development of various A/B tests, conducted on main 'traffic receivers' of Prezi, such as prezi.com, prezi.com/design/, prezi.com/product/, and prezi.com/video/ pages to figure out which layout/block/text on the page leads to better business metrics in the visitor/user flow.
- Developed/supported various payment and subscription-related flows in Prezi, e.g., transforming user subscription accounts based on the user's license type (single or multi).
- Improved existing fraud prevention logic in trial payment flow and introduced it in upgrade/renewal flows to reduce the number of fraudulent transactions ending up as chargebacks.
- Integrated Invisible reCAPTCHA on Prezi Sign-up pages, which substantially reduced the cognitive load and as an experiment has shown, increased registration amount by 17%, compared to regular signup with visible reCAPTCHA box.
- Shipped part of the backend logic for downloading the business invoices in 1 click from secure authentication-less links provided in email campaigns.
- Implemented cookie consent logic via 3rd party integration on top-funnel pages for EU visitors, allowing 3rd party tracking after consent is given.
- Introduced Facebook conversion event tracking from the backend using Conversions API, which led to more accurate conversion data in the analytics dashboards.
- Maintained and delivered new features to internal CMS and CRM.
- Supported micro-services stack modernization, like upgrading services from the deprecated python2.7 version or moving the python packages CI/CD pipelines to GitHub Actions from Jenkins.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: Python/Django, React/Typescript, AWS S3, RDS PostgreSQL, Automation Tests(Java/Gherkin), Grafana, Google Tools</div>

<div class="page-break-before"></div>

### Software Engineer, Infogram, Riga

####  2018 - JUNE 2020

- Led the development of infogram.com homepage and infogram.com/templates pages, built with Next.js.
- Led the modernizing of UI in the Prezi Design editor, which became part of the Prezi product suite eventually.
- Introduced the UI of the integrations panel within the Infogram editor, allowing users to connect to popular database sources, such as MySQL or PostgreSQL.
- Migrated support.infogram.com to the Zendesk Help Center platform.
- Fought Google Analytics / User tracking legacy left from the early days of Infogram startup.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: React, Node.js, Next.js, Google Tools</div>

### Web Developer, Sehner International, Riga/Hamburg

#### AUGUST 2016 - DECEMBER 2017

- Developed and maintained the online tool pflegegrad-berechnen.de for calculating the healthcare degree for seniors in Germany. That tool ultimately became the top result in Google SERP's searched by "pflegegrad berechnen" keyword, but more importantly, it serves the needs of visitors/users.
- Maintained the sehner.international, pflegemarkt.com business websites.
- Developed customized WordPress theme websites for clients of Sehner Int. and pm pflegemarkt.com GmbH.

<div class="tech-stack">Tech used: PHP, WordPress, Google Tools</div>
